
WHAT IS 'Open Transactions' ?

It's a solid, easy-to-use, FINANCIAL CRYPTO and DIGITAL CASH LIBRARY.
Including an operational API, SERVER and CLIENT.

Diagrams:  
Architecture Overview: http://billstclair.com/ot/ot-diagram.jpg
Fully-Anonymous (cash only): http://billstclair.com/ot/OT-Anon-CashOnly.jpg
Pseudo-Anonymous (using accounts): http://billstclair.com/ot/OT-Pseudonym-Instruments.jpg

Featuring: 
    -- Untraceable Digital Cash (real blinded tokens). 
    -- Pseudonymous User Accounts ('account' == PGP key). 
    -- Many Financial Instruments (cheques, cash, vouchers, invoices...)
    -- Anyone An Issuer (Ricardian-style Contracts) 
    -- Triple-Signed Receipts 
    -- Basket Currencies
    -- NEW! Markets with Trades
    -- NEW! Payment Plans 
    -- NEW! Native API for Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, Perl, C, 
       C++, Objective-C, C#, Tcl, and LISP
    -- NEW! XmlRpc/HTTP transport layer (build option)
    -- Soon: Stocks that pay dividends, Bonds that pay interest,
       and even Collateralized Debt Obligations.
    -- Soon: 2-D Barcodes to make possible 'Any screen a cash
       register' and 'Any camera phone a customer.'

Please see the Project page:
http://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki

FAQ:
http://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki/FAQ

Business Cases:
http://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki/Business-Cases

Release Notes:
http://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki/Release-Notes


"Seeking developers to contribute by writing client software and
doing other integrations!  I will support you on the OT API. Let's
make this happen!" -Fellow Traveler

--------------------------------------------------------------------


The server itself is a transaction processor in the cypherpunk
tradition. In more detail:

-- Many financial instruments are supported: Users can write
cheques, purchase cashier's cheques ('vouchers'), and withdraw in
untraceable digital cash. The software uses Chaumian-style, blinded
tokens courtesy of the Lucre library by Ben Laurie.

-- It's like PGP FOR MONEY. The idea is to have many cash
algorithms, not just Lucre. I'd like to add Chaum's version, Brands'
version, etc. So that, just like PGP, the software should support as
many of the top algorithms as possible, and make it easy to swap
them out when necessary.

-- User accounts are pseudonymous. A user account is a public key.
(This is like PKTP.) You can open as many user accounts as you want.
Full anonymity is possible only for 'cash-only' transactions (where
users only perform token exchanges), whereas pseudonymity means that
transactions can be linked to the key that signed them. (While the
real life identity of the owner is hidden, continuity of reputation
becomes possible.)

-- ANY USER CAN ISSUE new digital currencies and digital asset
types, by uploading the new currency contract to the server. (This
functionality is comparable to Ricardo, the transaction server by
IanG.)

-- Triple-Signed Receipts. Client and server are able to agree on
balances while simultaneously not storing any transaction history.
No digital assets can ever be transferred or withdrawn without an
authorizing signature from the account owner. (Account transfers are
received via inbox. See Bill St. Clair's excellent Trubanc for an
example of this.)

-- Open Transactions also features MARKETS. Any two asset types can
be traded against each other. The markets are full-featured and
include LIMIT ORDERS, STOP ORDERS, FILL-OR-KILL orders, DAY orders
(date ranges), and stop limits.

-- Open Transactions also supports BASKET CURRENCIES. Users can
define their own, and the server handles the process of exchanging
in and out of basket accounts. Baskets are treated by the software
like any other asset type, (you can open accounts, transfer funds,
withdraw cash, write cheques, and even trade basket currencies on
markets.)

-- Open Transactions also supports PAYMENT PLANS. Users can sign
contracts with each other, and the server will carry out the terms
and implement the payment plan. (A future goal is to issue new asset
types based on revenue from payment plans--so they can also be
traded on markets.)

-- CONTRACTS, in general, are very important to Open Transactions;
they are the building block of the entire library. Open Transactions
uses a Ricardian-style contract, and all the various instruments,
data files, and messages resemble PGP-signed XML files. All objects
serialize to a string.

-- The philosophy of the software is based around the SEPARATION OF
POWERS (issuers and transaction servers being separate entities --
See Loom for another example of this.) as well as the DISTRIBUTION
OF RISK. For example, Asset accounts can be distributed across
multiple servers, and asset types can be distributed across multiple
issuers (via baskets.)

-- Future (possible or planned) instruments include:
interest-bearing bonds, dividend-paying stocks, and Collateralized
Debt Obligations. The CDOs work by grouping a tranch of payment
plans together so that the payments flow into an internal server
backing account (for a new issuer account, to issue the shares in
the CDO.) This is similar to how basket currencies are implemented.
The shares can then be traded on markets like any other asset type.
Stocks and Bonds will also do their payouts via a similar mechanism.
These features aren't available yet, but they are easy to add given
the existing OT infrastructure.

-- All communications are secured with OpenSSL. All messages are
also signed and encrypted. All transactions require signatures from
relevant parties including the server.

-- Open Transactions is open-source, written in C++,
object-oriented, and includes a high-level API in Java, Ruby,
Python, C, C++, Obj-C, C#, Lisp, Perl, PHP, and Tcl. (Also
supporting JRuby, Jython, and any other language available on the
JVM.)

-- The software is fully cross-platform: Linux, Mac OS X, FreeBSD,
Android, and Windows are supported with makefiles, project files,
and instructions.

-- The library is transfer-protocol neutral as well as storage
neutral, and could be utilized across a variety of different
transfer protocols and storage systems. (The current test server and
client use SSL for transfer in addition to XmlRpc/HTTP, and they use
the filesystem for storage.)

The intention is for this software to be integrated as many places
as possible... Games, digital cash wallets, distributed data stores,
secure voip apps, anonymous bit torrent networks, mixnets,
remailers, nym servers, etc. There are many other potential uses.

This product includes software developed by Ben Laurie for use in
the Lucre project.




 
